protobuf/README.md, before:

# Protobuf RPM
I am documenting how to build a `RPM` for Google Protocol Buffer version 2.4.1 in EL6.
I could not have succeeded in doing that without the [Fedora RPM guide](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_an_RPM_package),
as well as the references therein.
Please read it: it is useful!

## Getting the sources
The starting point is the Fedora `RPM` for version 2.4.1, documented [here](https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pkgdb/acls/name/protobuf).
You can see all the development branches in the git repository for the package:
just click on package source on the top or go directly [here](http://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/cgit/protobuf.git/).
In the git log GUI, find the last commit for version 2.4.1 (it is the tip of `f17` and `f18` branches),
and download the snapshot (use `-N` with `wget`, `-R` with `curl` in order to preserve timestamping of files):

    $ wget -N http://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/cgit/protobuf.git/snapshot/protobuf-b2c5b375e8c0c198e10bbdfeeda9afa69363c0dc.tar.gz

Untar it:

    $ tar -xvzf protobuf-b2c5b375e8c0c198e10bbdfeeda9afa69363c0dc.tar.gz

The following files in there:

    ftdetect-proto.vim
    protobuf-2.3.0-fedora-gtest.patch
    protobuf-2.4.1-java-fixes.patch
    protobuf-init.el

are in this repo, in the `SOURCES` subdirectory. If you want to build the `RPM` by yourself, create the `RPM` building directory structure

    $ rpmdev-setuptree

and copy them (`cp -p` preserves timestamps) into `~/rpmbuild/SOURCES`.

## Getting the spec file
The spec file is in the `SPECS` subdirectory of this repo.
Give a look at it, and check the differences w.r.t. the original Fedora file:
apart from some legacy commands commented out (I should clean them up at some point)
you can see that I have put a condition for building the emacs and emacs-el packages:
EL5 and EL6 cannot build them, so they must be skipped.
There are some other conditions specific to EL5, due to the fact that some of the RPM macros are not supported in such arch.
Even if the package builds, I cannot guarantee (at the moment) it is fully functional: you are welcome to help!
If you want to build the `RPM` by yourself, copy the spec file into `~/rpmbuild/SPECS`.

## Building the RPM
Note: Use a local dummy user for building RPMs! See the [Fedora RPM guide](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_an_RPM_package) for more information.
Go into the `~rpmbuild/SPECS` directory, and validate the spec file:

    $ rpmlint protobuf.spec

If you do not get any error (but check the warnings anyhow!), build the `RPM`:

    $ rpmbuild -ba -vv protobuf.spec

If the buildas succeeds, you can find the `RPM` in `~/rpmbuild/RPMS`, and the source `RPM` in `~/rpmbuild/SRPMS`.

## Using the source RPM
The source `RPM` is very useful, since it ships all the source files, as well as the spec file, used for building a package.
The [Fedora RPM guide](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_an_RPM_package) gives you more information, but you can simply run:

    $ rpm -ivh sourcepackage-name*.src.rpm

in order to install it into `~/rpmbuild`.

Commit message:

Improved documentation for reference, source files and rpmlint.
Signed-off-by: Salvatore Di Guida <salvatore.di.guida@cern.ch>

protobuf/README.md, after:

# Protobuf RPM
I am documenting how to build a `RPM` for Google Protocol Buffer version 2.4.1 in EL6.
I could not have succeeded in doing that without the [Fedora RPM guide](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_an_RPM_package),
as well as the references therein.
Please read it: it is useful!

## Getting the sources
The starting point is the Fedora `RPM` for version 2.4.1, documented [here](https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pkgdb/acls/name/protobuf).
You can see all the development branches in the git repository for the package:
just click on package source on the top or go directly [here](http://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/cgit/protobuf.git/).
In the git log GUI, find the last commit for version 2.4.1 (it is the tip of `f17` and `f18` branches),
and download the snapshot (use `-N` with `wget`, `-R` with `curl` in order to preserve timestamping of files):

    $ wget -N http://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/cgit/protobuf.git/snapshot/protobuf-b2c5b375e8c0c198e10bbdfeeda9afa69363c0dc.tar.gz

Untar it:

    $ tar -xvzf protobuf-b2c5b375e8c0c198e10bbdfeeda9afa69363c0dc.tar.gz

The following files in there:

    ftdetect-proto.vim
    protobuf-2.3.0-fedora-gtest.patch
    protobuf-2.4.1-java-fixes.patch
    protobuf-init.el

are in this repo, in the `SOURCES` subdirectory. If you want to build the `RPM` by yourself, create the `RPM` building directory structure

    $ rpmdev-setuptree

and copy them (`cp -p` preserves timestamps) into `~/rpmbuild/SOURCES`.

Finally, download the protocol buffer archive into the `~/rpmbuild/SOURCES` folder:

    $ wget -N http://protobuf.googlecode.com/files/protobuf-2.4.1.tar.bz2

## Getting the spec file
The inspiration for building the spec file comes from the one packed into
[this source RPM](http://yum.aclub.net/pub/linux/centos/6/umask/SRPMS/protobuf-2.4.1-1.el6.src.rpm).
The spec file is in the `SPECS` subdirectory of this repo.
Give a look at it, and check the differences w.r.t. the original Fedora file:
apart from some legacy commands commented out (I should clean them up at some point)
you can see that I have put a condition for building the emacs and emacs-el packages:
EL5 and EL6 cannot build them, so they must be skipped.
There are some other conditions specific to EL5, due to the fact that some of the RPM macros are not supported in such arch.
Even if the package builds, I cannot guarantee (at the moment) it is fully functional: you are welcome to help!
If you want to build the `RPM` by yourself, copy the spec file into `~/rpmbuild/SPECS`.

## Building the RPM
Note: Use a local dummy user for building RPMs! See the [Fedora RPM guide](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_an_RPM_package) for more information.
Go into the `~rpmbuild/SPECS` directory, and validate the spec file:

    $ rpmlint protobuf.spec

You should not get any errors (if so, I made something very wrong), but you should get a warning for the URL of the source:

    protobuf.spec: W: invalid-url Source0: http://protobuf.googlecode.com/files/protobuf-2.4.1.tar.bz2 HTTP Error 404: Not Found

It is a false positive (see the [bug report](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=767739)).

Now, you can build the `RPM`:

    $ rpmbuild -ba -vv protobuf.spec

If the buildas succeeds, you can find the `RPM` in `~/rpmbuild/RPMS`, and the source `RPM` in `~/rpmbuild/SRPMS`.

## Using the source RPM
The source `RPM` is very useful, since it ships all the source files, as well as the spec file, used for building a package.
The [Fedora RPM guide](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/How_to_create_an_RPM_package) gives you more information, but you can simply run:

    $ rpm -ivh sourcepackage-name*.src.rpm

in order to install it into `~/rpmbuild`.
